I'd like to invite you to take your booklet, examining the Scriptures, and focus on the
second-last sentence in our comment.
There's quite a lot in there.
So that's our November 8th comment, the second-last sentence.
It says, able, inoc, Noah, Abraham, and others like them believed in the resurrection of
the dead, and looked forward to life on earth, under God's kingdom, to city having real
foundations.
Well, there's a lot there.
Let's take it apart and see how we can confirm each one of those statements that's made.
What about the first statement, able, inoc, Noah, Abraham, and others like them believed
in the resurrection of the dead?
Now, that's a pretty strong statement.
We don't see a clear teaching of the resurrection in the book of Genesis.
But just because Genesis doesn't mention it doesn't mean that these faithful men of
old didn't know about the resurrection.
The Apostle Paul tells us that they were all looking forward to a reward, a reward that
they would receive not in their lifetime, but in the future.
And that would require a resurrection.
Now the comment mentions inoc.
What do we know about him?
Turn to Hebrews chapter 11, and leave your Bibles open there, please, because we're going
to be reading several verses in Hebrews 11.
Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 5, it says, by faith, inoc was transferred so as not to
see death.
And he was nowhere to be found because God had transferred him.
For before he was transferred, that is, just before he died, he received the witness that
he had pleased God well.
So at the end of his life, he has told that he has pleased God well, and then what?
Nor reward?
That doesn't make sense.
Now the clergy of Christendom don't believe that inoc needed a resurrection because they
don't believe he died.
They focus on Paul's words that inoc was transferred, and he did not see death.
But the fact is that inoc did die.
How do we know?
Paul says so.
Look at verse 5, we're talking about inoc.
Look at verse 7, he's talking to about Abraham, verse 8, Abraham, verse 11, Sarah.
Now look at verse 13, in faith, all of these died.
Well that would include inoc, wouldn't it?
So inoc did die.
Well when it says he was transferred, does it mean that he went to heaven after he died?
Well, when was he baptized?
Couldn't get to heaven if he wasn't baptized.
When was Abraham baptized?
Noah, Moses, Jesus said, unless anyone is born of water and spirit, he cannot enter the
kingdom of heaven.
Well, come to think of it, none of these faithful men of old were baptized.
None of them were born of water and spirit, so none of them could get to heaven.
So that confirms the second part of our comment when it says that they looked forward to life
on earth, under God's kingdom, because they were not born again.
So they would have life on earth.
So we have covered really the first two parts of our comment, the fact that these men
did believe in a resurrection and that they were going to be resurrected to life on earth.
But wait a minute, how do we know that they believed in a resurrection?
Let's look at verse 13 again, and this time we're going to emphasize a little different
word.
Verse 13, in faith, in faith, all of these died.
Now what's Paul's definition of faith in the same chapter?
He says that the one who has faith believes that God is the rewarder of those who are earnestly
seeking him.
So when Paul says that all of these men died in faith, he means that when they died, they
were looking forward to a reward that God was going to become their rewarder.
Well in order for that to take place, they would have to have a resurrection, wouldn't
they?
What about Abraham?
He believed in the resurrection, although he never saw one.
Paul mentions that in verses 17 to 19.
Paul says by faith, Abraham, when he was tested as good as offered up Isaac, the man
who gladly received the promises attempted to offer up his only begotten son, although
it had been said to him, what will be called your offspring will be through Isaac.
But he reasoned that God was able to raise him up even from the dead.
He reasoned that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, and he did receive
him from there in an illustrative way.
But how do we know that Abraham believed in the resurrection?
On what basis can Paul say that Abraham reasoned that God was able to resurrect Isaac?
What would you say?
The key is in verse 18.
God said to Abraham, what will be called your offspring will be through Isaac.
In other words, Abraham's descendants were going to come through Isaac, and at the time
that Abraham attempted to offer Isaac, Isaac didn't have any offspring.
God's word had to come true.
When God said your offspring will be through Isaac, it had to come true.
And so if God allowed Abraham to go through with the sacrifice, he would have to resurrect
Isaac because God cannot lie.
Now there's a third part of our comment that we were looking at.
And it says that God's kingdom is the city having real foundations.
But since when is a city a kingdom?
Why do we draw that conclusion?
Well, when you come to Vingavid, even today there are independent nations or kingdoms
that are cities, monaco, Singapore, Gibraltar, Vatican City.
But go further in Bible times, a lot of cities were kingdoms.
We read about the king of Salem, the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah.
These were cities, but the cities had kings.
So Paul's listeners or readers would have understood when he says they were awaiting the
city having real foundation that this was a kingdom.
Now, Paul makes another powerful point in verse 35 when we talk about whether these faithful
men of old knew about the resurrection or not.
In verse 35, he says, women received their dead by resurrection, but other men were tortured
because they would not accept release by some ransom in order that they might attain
a better resurrection.
That makes sense, doesn't it?
Why would anybody accept to be tortured to death if he didn't believe in a better life?
So these men accepted to be persecuted and tortured because they knew that something
else, something better was coming, and that would require a resurrection.
So we can hardly agree with all of the points that are made in this second last sentence
of our comment today.
Abel, Inak, Noah, Abraham, and others like them believed in the resurrection of the dead
and looked forward to life on earth under God's kingdom, the city having real foundations.